In the mid-nineteenth century, London faced a problem:
There were too many deaths,
but not enough places to bury it.
Seems of recently deceased persons had to be dug up and scattered ...
so that more people could be put into the ground.
And that was of course a huge health risk,
that contributed to cholera epidemics ...
and this caused more deaths.
That is why two industrialists came up with a daring plan:
They lay about forty kilometers outside of London, at Brookwood, the largest cemetery in Europe.
And they let trains run from there to here ...
to this end point in Waterloo ...
and it became the London Necropolis Railway.
There were funerals of the first class,
second class, and of the third class ...
which at least guaranteed you a cemetery,
much better than the mass graves that London was using at the time ...
for the dead who could not afford anything better.
And here is the amazing part, the thing you might not know:
It worked!
The London Necropolis Railway continued to exist for almost a century.
The first train drove in 1854,
and although the car became more popular and this train was running less
in the twentieth century,
he continued to ride until the Second World War.
The only obstacle that stopped the railway was the bombing
on this railway line and the entire area during the Blitz.
If those rails had not been inflated, we would, theoretically speaking,
still see twenty-first-century death trains to Brookwood.
And that is something you may not have known.
[Subtitles by MM, translated by Thomas Joosten]